LEARNINGS.md, before:

# My learnings from this project

## Middlewares

- routes in middleware's matches array does not mean `private routes.` It just means that the middleware function gets invoked for the particular routes
- E.g. `matcher: ["/dashboard"]` means that on the "/dashboard" route is protected by the middleware function

## next-auth (v5)
### 1. Credentials provider
- #### Flow of callbacks

  > JWT -> Session

- #### Modifying session and token
  > - To add a new key to the session object, we need to pass it from token or directly manipulate it.
  > - For TypeScript, we also nee to change the default data type of the session and token if manipulated.
  >   e.g. Create a next-auth.d.ts file in root dir :point_down:

```typescript
import { UserRole } from "@prisma/client";
import NextAuth, { type DefaultSession } from "next-auth";

export type ExtendedUser = DefaultSession["user"] & {
  role: UserRole;
  userId: string;
};

declare module "next-auth" {
  interface Session {
    user: ExtendedUser;
  }
}
```

### 2. Google and GitHub providers

- We can Sign in without signing up with these providers. 
Inorder to do this, we need to make password attribute optional in our database as people using these providers to sign in need not use password, instead directly sign in with google, github or other providers

-

Commit message:

check: before resend email provider

LEARNINGS.md, after:

# My learnings from this project

## Middlewares

- routes in middleware's matches array does not mean `private routes.` It just means that the middleware function gets invoked for the particular routes
- E.g. `matcher: ["/dashboard"]` means that on the "/dashboard" route is protected by the middleware function

## next-auth (v5)

### 1. Credentials provider

- #### Flow of callbacks

  > JWT -> Session

- #### Modifying session and token
  > - To add a new key to the session object, we need to pass it from token or directly manipulate it.
  > - For TypeScript, we also nee to change the default data type of the session and token if manipulated.
  >   e.g. Create a next-auth.d.ts file in root dir :point_down:

```typescript
import { UserRole } from "@prisma/client";
import NextAuth, { type DefaultSession } from "next-auth";

export type ExtendedUser = DefaultSession["user"] & {
  role: UserRole;
  userId: string;
};

declare module "next-auth" {
  interface Session {
    user: ExtendedUser;
  }
}
```

### 2. Google and GitHub providers

- We can Sign in without signing up with these providers.
  Inorder to do this, we need to make password attribute optional in our database as people using these providers to sign in need not use password, instead directly sign in with google, github or other providers

- #### 2FA
  Google, GitHub and other providers already has 2FA and are secured. Therefore, we need to implement 2FA only for credentials provider if needed.
